# Detecting-the-Conceptual-Evolution-of-Social-Inequality-in-Sociology

### Social inequality regarding race, gender, class, and other social identities is a key issue in oursociety as well as a crucial topic in many fields of social studies. Undoubtedly, the conceptualperception of social inequality is evolving over time. For example, Gang et al. [7] investigates theevolution of gender and ethnic stereotypes through text mining of news over the past 100 years.Though there have been a number of scholars investigating the conceptual evolution of genderand ethnic stereotypes based on text mining of news [6,7,9], little is known about the conceptualevolution in scholarly work, especially in the field of sociology which focuses mainly on a varietyof social inequality issues not limited to gender and ethnicity. Different from media news that oftenexplicitly embody social stereotypes, the sociology papers aim mainly to analyze and criticize suchstereotypes and other social inequality. We thus aim to explore how the conceptual discussion,analysis, and criticism of social inequality problems evolve in sociology papers. In other words, ourtask is to detect how sociology papers talked about social inequality in more than one century.In the domain of sociology, especially in the sub-domain of sociology of knowledge, sociologistsoften investigate sociology papers to trace the evolution of sociological knowledge and discussionmainly though human reading [1]. However, because there are numerous top journal papers whichare often very lengthy (over 30 pages), it is difficult and time-consuming to explore all papers byhuman reading. In view of this difficulty, we need computational models to explore them.However, most state-of-the-art computational methods are developed based on practical needs,such as indexing, classification, recommendation, sentence generation, among others, and bench-mark datasets often used in computer science such as news and reviews. Social studies may benot interested in these tasks. They care more about analysis, interpretation, and explanation oftenbased on texts with unique characteristics. In view of this, this project aims to modify and adapttext mining and machine learning methods, previously developed based on conventional computerscience tasks and benchmark datasets, to detect the conceptual evolution of social inequality inprestigious sociology journals. Therefore, our focus will be on new ways of using and evaluatingtopic modeling and word embedding for the purpose of analysis. It is worth noting that, comparedto pure substantial analysis, we are more interested in the application and evaluation of machinelearning models in social data mining for analysis. This paper, accordingly, will focus more onthe technical aspects in terms of application and evaluation for analysis rather than substantialanalysis of conceptual evolution itself.
